===============
 Stone Glossary
===============

Stone is growing rapidly. As firms deploy Stone, the technical terms such as
"RADOS", "RBD," "RGW" and so forth require corresponding marketing terms
that explain what each component does. The terms in this glossary are
intended to complement the existing technical terminology.

Sometimes more than one term applies to a definition. Generally, the first
term reflects a term consistent with Stone's marketing, and secondary terms
reflect either technical terms or legacy ways of referring to Stone systems.


.. glossary::

	Stone Project
		The aggregate term for the people, software, mission and infrastructure
		of Stone.

	cephx
		The Stone authentication protocol. Stonex operates like Kerberos, but it
		has no single point of failure.

	Stone
	Stone Platform
		All Stone software, which includes any piece of code hosted at
		`https://github.com/ceph`_.

	Stone System
	Stone Stack
		A collection of two or more components of Stone.

	Stone Node
	Node
	Host
		Any single machine or server in a Stone System.

	Stone Storage Cluster
	Stone Object Store
	RADOS
	RADOS Cluster
	Reliable Autonomic Distributed Object Store
		The core set of storage software which stores the user's data (MON+OSD).

	Stone Cluster Map
	Cluster Map
		The set of maps comprising the monitor map, OSD map, PG map, MDS map and
		CRUSH map. See `Cluster Map`_ for details.

	Stone Object Storage
		The object storage "product", service or capabilities, which consists
		essentially of a Stone Storage Cluster and a Stone Object Gateway.

	Stone Object Gateway
	RADOS Gateway
	RGW
		The S3/Swift gateway component of Stone.

	Stone Block Device
	RBD
		The block storage component of Stone.

	Stone Block Storage
		The block storage "product," service or capabilities when used in
		conjunction with ``librbd``, a hypervisor such as QEMU or Xen, and a
		hypervisor abstraction layer such as ``libvirt``.

	Stone File System
	StoneFS
	Stone FS
		The POSIX filesystem components of Stone. Refer
		:ref:`StoneFS Architecture <arch-cephfs>` and :ref:`ceph-file-system` for
		more details.

	Cloud Platforms
	Cloud Stacks
		Third party cloud provisioning platforms such as OpenStack, CloudStack,
		OpenNebula, ProxMox, etc.

	Object Storage Device
	OSD
		A physical or logical storage unit (*e.g.*, LUN).
		Sometimes, Stone users use the
		term "OSD" to refer to :term:`Stone OSD Daemon`, though the
		proper term is "Stone OSD".

	Stone OSD Daemon
	Stone OSD Daemons
	Stone OSD
		The Stone OSD software, which interacts with a logical
		disk (:term:`OSD`). Sometimes, Stone users use the
		term "OSD" to refer to "Stone OSD Daemon", though the
		proper term is "Stone OSD".

	OSD id
		The integer that defines an OSD. It is generated by the monitors as part
		of the creation of a new OSD.

	OSD fsid
		This is a unique identifier used to further improve the uniqueness of an
		OSD and it is found in the OSD path in a file called ``osd_fsid``. This
		``fsid`` term is used interchangeably with ``uuid``

	OSD uuid
		Just like the OSD fsid, this is the OSD unique identifier and is used
		interchangeably with ``fsid``

	bluestore
		OSD BlueStore is a new back end for OSD daemons (kraken and newer
		versions). Unlike :term:`filestore` it stores objects directly on the
		Stone block devices without any file system interface.

	filestore
		A back end for OSD daemons, where a Journal is needed and files are
		written to the filesystem.

	Stone Monitor
	MON
		The Stone monitor software.

	Stone Manager
	MGR
		The Stone manager software, which collects all the state from the whole
		cluster in one place.

	Stone Manager Dashboard
	Stone Dashboard
	Dashboard Module
	Dashboard Plugin
	Dashboard
		A built-in web-based Stone management and monitoring application to
		administer various aspects and objects of the cluster. The dashboard is
		implemented as a Stone Manager module. See :ref:`mgr-dashboard` for more
		details.

	Stone Metadata Server
	MDS
		The Stone metadata software.

	Stone Clients
	Stone Client
		The collection of Stone components which can access a Stone Storage
		Cluster. These include the Stone Object Gateway, the Stone Block Device,
		the Stone File System, and their corresponding libraries, kernel modules,
		and FUSEs.

	Stone Kernel Modules
		The collection of kernel modules which can be used to interact with the
		Stone System (e.g., ``ceph.ko``, ``rbd.ko``).

	Stone Client Libraries
		The collection of libraries that can be used to interact with components
		of the Stone System.

	Stone Release
		Any distinct numbered version of Stone.

	Stone Point Release
		Any ad-hoc release that includes only bug or security fixes.

	Stone Interim Release
		Versions of Stone that have not yet been put through quality assurance
		testing, but may contain new features.

	Stone Release Candidate
		A major version of Stone that has undergone initial quality assurance
		testing and is ready for beta testers.

	Stone Stable Release
		A major version of Stone where all features from the preceding interim
		releases have been put through quality assurance testing successfully.

	Stone Test Framework
	Teuthology
		The collection of software that performs scripted tests on Stone.

	CRUSH
		Controlled Replication Under Scalable Hashing. It is the algorithm
		Stone uses to compute object storage locations.

	CRUSH rule
		The CRUSH data placement rule that applies to a particular pool(s).

	Pool
	Pools
		Pools are logical partitions for storing objects.

	systemd oneshot
		A systemd ``type`` where a command is defined in ``ExecStart`` which will
		exit upon completion (it is not intended to daemonize)

	LVM tags
		Extensible metadata for LVM volumes and groups. It is used to store
		Stone-specific information about devices and its relationship with
		OSDs.

.. _https://github.com/ceph: https://github.com/ceph
.. _Cluster Map: ../architecture#cluster-map
